 
May 26, 2021 
 
A Joint Paper on Prediction of Optical Properties of OLED Materials was Published  
in a Nature Research Journal 
– The World-First Calculation of the Excited States of OLED Materials on Quantum Computers – 
 
Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation 
IBM Japan, Ltd. 
JSR Corporation 
Keio University 
 
Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (headquartered in Chiyoda, Tokyo, President & CEO Masayuki Waga), IBM Japan, 
Ltd. (headquartered in Chuo, Tokyo, General Manager Akio Yamaguchi), JSR Corporation (headquartered in Minato, 
Tokyo, CEO Eric Johnson) and Keio University (headquartered in Minato, Tokyo, President Akira Haseyama) are 
pleased to announce that a paper describing the research results of “Predicting Optical Properties of OLED Materials 
on Quantum Computers,” a joint project from IBM Quantum Network Hub at Keio University,* has been published in 
“npj Computational Materials,” a world-renowned Nature Research Journal. 
 
Scientist at Mitsubishi Chemical and IBM initiated a joint research project with collaborators at JSR and Keio 
University to calculate the excited states of thermally activated delayed fluorescence (TADF) emitters which are 
applied to the fabrication of efficient OLEDs. The parties have developed a new scheme to mitigate the error from 
current noisy quantum computers and succeeded in improving the calculation accuracy. This is the world-first 
research case of applying quantum computers to excited states calculations of commercial materials. 
 
We expect the proposed error mitigation scheme, together with the improvements of the performance of quantum 
computers will provide ever more accurate quantum chemistry calculation results for designing OLED emitters with 
high quantum efficiency in the near term.  
 
We continue research in the area of using quantum computers to accelerate the development of a wide range of new 
materials. 
 
*About the IBM Quantum Network Hub at Keio University  
Opened in May 2018 by Keio University and IBM Japan on the Yagami Campus of the university’s Faculty of 
Science and Technology, the IBM Quantum Network Hub at Keio University brings together academia and industry, 
with Mitsubishi Chemical and JSR as founding members. It is also the first IBM Quantum Hub in Asia leveraging 
IBM Quantum Systems, the most advanced quantum computers developed by IBM and delivered via the cloud.  
For further information, please contact:  
Communication Division, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Tel: [+81] (0)3-6748-7161   
External Relations, IBM Japan, Ltd. Tel: [+81] (0)3-3808-5120 
Corporate Communications Dept., JSR Corporation Tel: [+81] (0)3-6218-3517 
Office of Communications and Public Relations, Keio University Tel: [+81] (0)3-5427-1541 

[Content of this research project] 
 
The ab initio calculation of excited states of large size molecules on classical computer is rather demanding as far 
as computer time is concerned. In recent year, some quantum algorithms for exponential speedup of excited state 
calculations with the use of quantum computers have been proposed. These algorithms are expected to be useful to 
perform calculations of large systems that have not been possible on classical computers. On the other hand, most 
benchmark calculation for the validation of these algorithms in the literature were only applied to simple molecular 
systems such as H2, LiH and for the complicated chemical systems few surveys of the ability of these algorithms has 
been carried out. Moreover, due to the error in quantum computer, it is difficult to achieve chemical accuracy for the 
calculations on current device. 
The goal of the work is to use two quantum algorithms (qEOM-VQE and VQD algorithms) to reliably predict 
excited states energies of TADF materials which is used as a kind of OLED emitters. The feature of TADF materials is 
that the first triplet state (T1) is sufficiently close to the first singlet state (S1) in energy (normally within several 
kcal/mol) that non-emissive T1 excitons can be thermally excited to an emissive S1 state. The mechanism enables the 
performance of TADF emitters for OLED device with potentially 100% internal quantum efficiency, in contrast to the 
OLED device using conventional fluorophores which efficiency is inherently limited to 25%. Thus, theoretical 
approaches to accurately predict S1 and T1 states can make a contribution to the development of TADF materials.  
In this work, three TADF molecules (PSPCz, 2F-PSPCz, and 4F-PSPCZ) were selected from Mitsubishi 
Chemical’s patent and their molecular orbitals of HOMO and LUMO (Fig. 1) were used as an active space to 
calculate the S1 and T1 excited states on noise-free quantum computer simulator and IBM quantum computers. 
Excellent agreement (correlation coefficient of 0.99) between S1-T1 gap predicted by calculations on simulator and 
spectra experiments were found, as shown in Fig 1. Fig 1 also indicates that the calculations on IBM quantum 
computers can not accurately calculate the S1 and T1 states, suggesting the noise from quantum computers is the main 
culprit of deviation of S1-T1 gap from the experimental data. To mitigate the error from the noisy quantum computers, 
a new error mitigation scheme using quantum tomography techniques was proposed. In the scheme, the 
corresponding quantum state of the calculation result is firstly measured by quantum tomography techniques. The 
measured quantum state is then used to estimate the error of the calculation and finally correct the calculation results. 
By utilizing the scheme, a maximum difference of 88 mHa from quantum computers to the exact eigenvalues was 
improved to approximately 4 mHa. Consequently, good agreement was achieved between calculations on quantum 
computers and experiment data. Going forward, we plan to extend the proposed approach to much larger size systems 
so that quantum computers can be utilized for the applications of the development of a wider range of new 
commercial materials.       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<Co-authors> 
- Qi Gao, Takao Kobayashi, and Eriko Watanabe, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Science & Innovation Center 
- Hajime Nakamura, IBM Research-Tokyo 
- Gavin O. Jones and Mario Motta, IBM Research-Almaden 
- Yu-ya Ohnishi, JSR Corporation 
- Michihiko Sugawara, Hiroshi Watanabe, and Naoki Yamamoto, Keio University 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1:Molecular structures and orbitals of TADF materials (PSPCz, 2F-PSPCz, and 4F-PSPCZ) 
and correlations between calculation  results and experiment data 
IBM Quantum Computer 
